Hello and welcome.
In this lecture it's very exciting we're gonna get some saving actually working.
So if I move my character over here from his default save start location and hit safe we get our log
message very boring as it was before.
And if I move my character away from that location but hit load we load back the state that we saved
is actually a safe system in progress and working with our movement component.
Let's dive in and see how we can make this work with our characters and components so now that we're
able to activate the saving loading we want to actually have the data in our scene being saved and loaded.
Now as I have said before the way to do this is to use our salable entity on the things that we want
to save and load and to have Icesave bulls implemented on all the components that we want to save and
load from.
So we're going to start off by doing the characters as our salable entities and having the movement
component as the first component that stores state which is going to be the location of the character.
So we're going to do this by going in to our character prefab so let's go ahead and open up the character
prefab.
The first thing we want to do is make this a safe blend city so I'm going to add the saleable entity
components like so you'll notice that there is a serialized field here called the unique identifier
now don't go and enter this otherwise it's not going to be unique because every character is going to
have the same unique identifier.
Now there is some magic going on behind the scene which actually means that in your sandbox you will
notice or any scene that you open up you will notice that suddenly you've got an asterisk here.
It's asking you to save the scene.
Why is that.
We change the prefab it's asking us to save the scene.
Well that's because using an editor script we have gone ahead and modified the scene based on that IceSave
bill.
So if we go and find the character for example any character we'll find the player for example you can
see that he has got a unique identifier that has been generated and is part of the override of this
scene.
So it's unique according within this scene basically.
So this character is the only one that has this unique identifier.
If I go ahead to any of these enemies for example and the enemies each have their own unique identifier
this just means that the data associated with this entity is going to always be associated with this
entity even if I change up my scene in an update I decide that I want my player to or my enemy to be
located in a different place.
The scene data is still going to be the same and associated with the correct enemy.
So that's a nice little bonus for you having these unique identifier so you don't have to go in and
type them all in manually.
Now we will be seeing a situation with the player where we want to deliberately override that unique
identifier but we're not going to get to that just yet.
So I'm going to go ahead and open this scene and save it.
I'm going to find my other scenes as well that have got potentially got characters in his and box has
also got a character so I'm gonna go ahead open it and then you'll leave.
There are some changes because it has generated those unique identifiers made to go ahead and safe.
So I got to go back to my sandbox one and we want to implement the ISO capable on our mover scriptural
object on our mover model behavior.
So I'm going to go ahead and open up the mover one of behavior.
And by the way I did that with a control P which opens up files by name and you can see we're already
implementing AI action here.
Now we want to add using RPG dot saving here at the top of the file so that we have access to the AI
savable.
And in addition to AI action we're gonna have AI Sable.
Simple as that.
Now if you remember we have got the control dots to allow us to implement an interface I'm going to
go ahead and use that now.
And I believe it's added two methods to the bottom of your class.
Now what it's got there is a capture state and a restored state.
Now notice that capture state and restore state have an object here.
Now why is that.
Well this is because of the substitution principle we've seen this before with AI action we could say
that you can put in a mover or a fighter because they both inherit from AI action in this case.
What we're saying is the object is the root object of all objects in C sharp.
So really we could put in a serialized vector three we'll see what that is in just a second.
We could put an addiction we can put any C sharp objects in to something that takes a type of object.
So that basically means we could return anything from this method.
And the thing passed back into restore stay is going to be the same thing that we returned from capture
state.
So that is the magic of the saving system going on right here.
It's saying whenever you capture the state that is the thing that is going to be restored when the save
file is restored.
Now a little thing to note here is that restore state when the level loads is going to be called just
after awake but before start.
So it happens in between those two calls.
That's not quite relevant to us just yet but it might be.
So let's start off by trying to capture the state of the move.
We're going to say that the state of the mover is essentially just our position now is pretty straightforward
because what we want to do is go ahead and return our position because that's what it's going to save
in the save file so I can do a transform dot position return so return that in the capture state.
Now let's go ahead and save in our game and see what happens.
OK go ahead and play and then I hit the save button and we have got ourselves an error.
Now what is this error saying.
Saying it's a serialization exception that vector 3 is not marked as C realizable.
Ah well that explains why we've got this other class in our saving module.
We've got this C realizable vector 3 and that kind of explains it.
Basically it's a vector three but it is marked as serialized bool.
So there is a restriction on the things that we can return from capture state.
And that is that they have to be marked as serialized.
Now all that really means is that you have put this annotation on the class making it a system dot serialize
bool class and that just means hey take the data in this class and make sure it is safe to the save
file and so on and so forth.
So don't have to worry about the specifics of it as you can see the class is fairly basic.
We can just go ahead and construct it from an existing vector 3.
So all I want to do is do a new serialized bool vector 3 and pass into the constructor of the current
position which means that we're going to get out of it a serialized vector 3 with that position.
So if we go ahead and try to save this time hopefully we won't get any runtime errors.
So going hard hit play hit s and it is saying Oh end of stream in counts before passing was complete.
Now if you ever see that kind of error after you've just changed something within the get well the capture
state or restore state then that reason probably is that it is no longer able to use the old save file
because you've changed something about how that save file is formatted now.
So the simple solution to that is to just go ahead and delete the save file from whatever location it
is now on Windows.
This tends to be under the app data.
Local low then the company name that you may have set up in your project and the project name.
So I'm gonna go ahead and delete the save file and try that save one more time this time here s and
there is no error it has gone ahead and saved all the positions that we have in the world to our save
file.
So the next step is to go ahead and restore those positions.
So the way to restore the positions is to assume that the object we are getting passed in is the same
type as the object that we passed out of capture state.
Remember that we can do this because object is the parent class of all objects.
Therefore state can contain any object but seeing as the compiler doesn't know that this object actually
contains a serialized bool vector 3 we have to be explicit about that and take responsibility and this
process is called casting casting is just the process of saying I've got an object but honestly I tell
you compiler this object is a serialized bool vector 3 and so eliminates any other potential possibilities
that that object could be.
And then you're allowed to use methods on it as if it was a serialized vector 3.
Now there are two main methods that we could be doing this.
We will assume that we have got a state variable that is a type object.
Now the first approach that we could take is this one where you essentially are assigning this into
a new variable and the cast is this bit going on inside the brackets by putting the type that we want
to cast to within the brackets.
We are saying to the compiler that we are absolutely certain that there's variable state contains a
serialized bool vector 3 and if it does not we're gonna get an exception thrown that says this wasn't
the case state object contains something other than a serialized vets three and the code will not continue
to run.
The second option is to use this as key word.
So we're saying state as serialize effect three and what happens here if state does not contain a serialized
bool vector 3.
Is it just returns.
No.
So the serialized bool vector 3 X is going to just contain null.
And anything that we call on it afterwards is going to potentially cause an exception or we might choose
to do an if statement and check whether it's null and a handle that case now because we are very sure
that we've just returned a vector three from our capture state function.
We're pretty sure that what's going to come back is a slow reliable vector 3 so I'm gonna go with the
first option and if anything goes wrong and our assumption is incorrect we're gonna get an exception
which is going to be hard for us to ignore.
We're gonna have to go in and fix things.
However if you ever have a case where you need to a cast and you're not sure whether the thing contains
a serialized vector 3.
By that I mean that there is a legitimate reason your program could contain a different thing in that
variable then do go ahead and use the second option here where it turns now and then check that the
thing you've got isn't null before continuing.
So let's implement that first approach in code and so serialize of all back to three.
It's going to be our position is equal to the state.
Obviously it won't let us do that because state is of type object.
So we need to do a cast which is basically just putting this type in brackets saying yes honest guv
that object is a serialized ball vector 3 Now the reason we can't have that type in restore state is
because then it would be different for every single I save a ball and it doesn't work that way.
So that's not what we've got we've got a object here and we have to do the cast.
So then we've got this C reliable vector three how do we turn it back into a vector three where we do
a position dot get vector that is a method which is going to return the vector three out of the serialized
Bill vector three and we can use that to set our transform dot position it's going to set the position
back to where we were before we saved.
Now this would pretty much work.
90 percent of the time.
But sometimes you get into weird conditions with the nav mesh agent.
Now there are two solutions to that.
If we go ahead and get the components get components nav mesh agent then we can see what methods it
has.
There is a method called move and that moves the nav mesh agents by an offset.
Now that is one way that you could update the position but you would have to figure out where the agent
currently is and figure out what the offset factor is that's definitely one option.
Another option is that if you are changing the position and you don't want the NAV Finnish agent interfering
just disable the nav mesh agent before you start.
So enabled equals true I'm sorry is equal false on the now fresh agent that we update the transform
position and after we finished updating the transform position we just re enable the our flash agent
not just stops the nav mesh agent from meddling with our position while we're trying to change it that
can cause problems and it has caused problems in the past.
So I'm just going to avoid that altogether.
So let's go ahead and try saving and restoring now.
So I'm going to hit play going to move to a different location and hit save.
Now I'm going to move to a different location again and hit load notice we go back to the location in
which we say that is the safe system working.
That is our eye saver Bill restore state and capture state doing its job so in this lecture we have
seen how we can use the save a bill entity component to mark our different game objects as something
that needs to be saved it gives them a unique identifier and things like that clever stuff.
And additionally we have seen how we can use an eye saleable interface to mark components as saleable
as well as how we can then pass data back and forth from these objects and the safe system now in the
next lecture we're going to look at how we can do that again.
But with the health system and that's going to be a challenge lecture for you see there.